EOSIO COMMUNITY - Mar 6, 2020

Smartpress Is The Smart Contract Cloud 
======================================

![Smartpress is the smart contract
cloud](https://eos.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Smartpress-BulitOnEOSIO-1024x585.jpg)

We interviewed Lachlan Greenbank, CEO and founder of Smartpress, about
their platform that simplifies using EOSIO Smart Contracts for
businesses.

![Smart contract cloud
logo](https://eos.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Smart-contract-cloud-logo-1024x307.png)

Could you introduce Smartpress for us?
--------------------------------------

Smartpress is a Software as a Service (SaaS) platform that lets you
rapidly connect your apps to an EOSIO Smart Contract.

We describe Smartpress as: “The Smart Contract Cloud”. It’s for those
who would like to adopt Smart Contracts, verify transactions on a third
party block explorer, and add security, trust, and validity to their
data.

We provide an API wrapper so that you can easily launch a Smart Contract
on our platform. You can then create accounts for your users that you
can map to your own internal IDs without having to worry about the
blockchain layer.

This makes life a lot easier for those teams who would like to enjoy the
benefits of using an EOSIO blockchain, but who aren’t quite ready to
take on all the complexities of Smart Contract development from scratch.
They can get their app connected to a Smart Contract and get things
flowing fairly quickly. If they like, down the line they can then take
over completely. We will provide the Smart Contract(s) to them and sign
over the active and owner keys.

This effectively makes us an EOSIO adoption engine – we help companies
get up and running with EOSIO Smart Contracts without having to think
about hiring specialist blockchain developers. They can use Smart
Contracts to improve the security and validation of their data with
their current resources –  recently one of our customers who were using
a JavaScript developer with only six months’ of experience found it very
easy to integrate Smartpress with their frontend.

![Code showing how easy it is to use Smartpress smart contracts using
javascript](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg%20xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'%20viewBox='0%200%200%200'%3E%3C/svg%3E)

![Code showing how easy it is to use Smartpress smart contracts using
javascript](https://eos.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Code-showing-how-smartpress-smart-contracts-using-javascript-1024x567.png)

Smartpress documentation showing how EOSIO Smart Contract methods can be
called with just a few lines of JavaScript.

What inspired you to create Smartpress?
---------------------------------------

The inspiration came from our experience at the[EOS Global
Hackathon](https://eos.io/news/hacking-on-one-year-on/) event in Sydney
in August 2018. There were hundreds of participants there, from
different sectors and industries. Only a few of them (myself included)
had significant experience setting up and writing EOSIO Smart Contracts.

When the time came and we started hacking, most teams had to spend a
couple of hours at least getting started with EOSIO, whereas we were up
and running immediately. This gave my team an edge technically and
timewise. But, most importantly, it allowed us to observe and identify
this use case: What if you could set a few parameters, press a button
and have an app produce secure code for you?

We realized this would have saved hundreds of hours of effort at the
hackathon, so we created Smartpress to save time for anyone new to
blockchain and EOSIO technology. This software has the potential to
reach millions of developers in the years to come, and we hope that our
product will have a massive impact by saving them time and money.

Why did you decide to use blockchain technology, and specifically EOSIO?
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Blockchain can be used in a powerful yet simple way. A basic Smart
Contract can be used to build trust with your users by allowing them to
audit and verify the data themselves. This is what we believe blockchain
is about: not trusting companies anymore and making them prove to you
that they are doing what they say they are.

EOSIO is the highest quality blockchain software out there. It is highly
performant, which means that data publishing and validation can be done
very quickly. The
[eosio.contracts](https://github.com/EOSIO/eosio.contracts) repository
has a selection of useful basic contracts which offer functionality with
vetted and robust code.

We also believe in the leadership and vision of
[Block.one](https://block.one/), and that they will continue to innovate
and work to improve EOSIO as time goes on.

![Example of
UI](https://eos.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Example-of-Smartpress-UI-1024x563.png)

The simple and intuitive UI of the Smartpress platform make using EOSIO
Smart Contracts easy

What stage is Smartpress at?
----------------------------

The Smartpress core platform is built and functioning. We have a number
of paying customers and are ready to onboard new users at any time.
Public EOSIO blockchains change over time, due to their governance, and
adoption of changes to the core software. We are constantly working to
keep up to date with these changes which is a compelling reason to use
Smartpress:

The user experience will stay close to constant due to the work we are
doing on the backend of the platform.

What are the challenges you had to overcome, and how did you do it?
-------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the challenges that we are facing right now is convincing people
of the merits of using blockchain technology to solve their problems.
It’s tricky to explain something new and technical to people.

This all makes advertising difficult. So far we haven’t been able to
find a scalable, repeatable model using common digital marketing tools.
We’re getting closer to being able to predict that if we put in X amount
of marketing dollars into a strategy, then we get out Y amount of
revenue. Some days we have a lot of success, and some days we have none
at all.

In addition to improving the effectiveness of our digital marketing, we
are focusing on a “warmer” approach to contacting potential customers.
This involves meeting potential customers at events and conferences. We
plan on attracting new users as a result of our scaling efforts as well.

![Example of UI
EOSIO](https://eos.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Example-of-Smartpress-UI-EOSIO-1024x560.png)

Smartpress makes it easy to map internal usernames to EOSIO blockchain
account names\

What are your plans for scaling?
--------------------------------

We are actively scaling the business by growing the Smartpress customer
base. We are planning on offering a suite of user focused products as
well.

Users will arrive on the site and see that Smartpress is the Smart
Contract cloud, but they will also see a number of products which they
can use built by Smartpress, on Smartpress. This will help us to onboard
new users to Smartpress as well as educating the market as a whole about
the benefits of blockchain technology.

One product which we are working on will solve the problem of document
verification. We can look at education providers to demonstrate why this
would be so useful. If you want to verify that a candidate has completed
a course in programming, for example, you would need to go to the course
provider. You would probably need to go through a support process and
they might send you a letter or an email after several hours of effort
going back and forth.

If they had used our new product, all you would have to do is drop the
PDF of the certificate in, and we would tell you everything you need to
know about it (when it was issued, which grade was attained, which
course it was for, etc). In this way you can vet the candidate for the
job instantly without having to rely on anyone else.

I think these types of verification solutions are going to show people
how quickly blockchain technology can be adopted to save people and
businesses lots of time and effort. A lot of organizations could benefit
from this service: universities dispensing degree certificates, local
councils granting liquor licenses, construction companies who need to
check workers’ forklift licences. They will all have the convenient
option to use a Smartpress product to verify their documents instead of
writing their own Smart Contracts and providing a website.

![A graphic showing how Smartpress can help save on developer
salaries](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg%20xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'%20viewBox='0%200%200%200'%3E%3C/svg%3E)

![A graphic showing how Smartpress can help save on developer
salaries](https://eos.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Help-save-onddevelopers-salaries.png)

What EOSIO community initiatives have you engaged in, and how has the EOSIO Community responded to Smartpress?
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We have hosted several meetups in Canberra to tell the community about
EOSIO. We are planning to do a lot more outreach in Sydney now that we
are based here. That includes going to meetups and events to tell people
about Smartpress – general technology themed ones, not just blockchain.

We were grand finalists in the EOS Global Hackathon series in 2018 which
was a great opportunity to meet and connect with EOSIO community members
from all over the world. That gave us a headstart with name recognition
in the ecosystem, some great resources, and knowledge about where to go
and who to talk to about all things EOSIO.

Can you introduce your team and tell us what makes them/it special?
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The only permanent member of Smartpress right now is me. I have a few
contractors doing design and sales, though. When we originally won the
Sydney EOS Global Hackathon and progressed to the Grand Finale in Cape
Town, there were other core team members. They have since left the
project, due to timing and family commitments.

It is exhilarating (and terrifying) to be in total control of the
company. I can hire people to do what needs to be done and set the
strategic direction, but the consequence of this is that the success of
the business rests solely on my shoulders. I am confident in my ability
to lead and manage Smartpress to achieve profit and growth.


![Smartpress founder Lachlan Greenbank
pitching](https://eos.io/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Smartpress-founder-Lachlan-Greenbankp-pitching-1024x585.jpg)

Lachlan Greenbank pitches Smartpress at the EOS Global Hackathon Grand
Finale in Cape Town

I started out learning coding when I was 17. I went to a community
college which was fairly laid back. I wasn’t particularly enthusiastic
about higher education at that point in my life – I was more interested
in hanging out and having fun with my friends. I turned out to be an apt
student and even won a coding competition when I was there.

After I gained my college diploma I studied an IT degree at ANU, which
is actually the highest ranked university in Australia. I was two years
into my degree when the EOS Global Hackathons started. I was also
working at a small company and I quit my job there a couple of months
before the events because I thought that EOSIO was something special. It
turned out to be a huge opportunity and I am glad I took the risk and
embarked on this adventure!

Where do you see Smartpress in the future?
------------------------------------------

The core vision of Smartpress remains strong: making it easier for users
and businesses to benefit from EOSIO blockchain technology. Our niche is
simplicity, because I am a simple sort of dude. When I am building
things I like plugging stuff in and getting it done without a whole lot
of configuration and setup.

So we are going to continue to attract customers to our platform by
offering them a convenient and cost effective way to use Smart Contracts
in their business activities. We will be releasing a suite of products
that leverage our platform to offer useful functionality to customers.

Because we are laser focused on providing value for our customers and
demonstrating how our products can save time and effort, we remain
resilient to a range of market conditions. If blockchain explodes in
popularity then that’s great, and we are ready to scale up and onboard a
million users over the next six months. If it takes another few years
though, with slower growth, then we are ready for that too.

In a sentence, how would you want readers to remember Smartpress?
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Smartpress is the smart contract cloud.

. . .

