![](https://i.imgur.com/WpKE3pV.png)

Apr 14, 2020


**WAX ON: Why you should have cryptocurrency in your portfolio**
============================================================

<div class="text-center" style="max-width:560px; margin: 0 auto;"><div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9"><iframe src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/z5v-ghLJKeU" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></div></div>


*Transcript:*

*William: Hello, Megan is my partner at Magnetic Capital. She’ll be
walking us through Magnetic’s framework for how we view and find
investment opportunities for crypto. So Megan, share a little bit about
what Magnetic does.*

*Megan: Magnetic’s focus since 2012 has been purely crypto and
distributed ledger technology. We’ve watched the market evolve. The
changes in technology, the experimentation, the tax, the regulatory, and
the market changes. Our background is investors, company builders, and
merchants. Using blockchain technology gives us insight that few
investors can buy in this asset class. Our investment approach is
experience-based and research driven.*

*William: So what is special about crypto that makes it a compelling
investment opportunity?*

*Megan: The fact that it’s not yet a mature asset class. You can see
this from the relatively small market cap of crypto compared to other
asset classes. You also see this in the small user base. And we’re still
at a very early stage of enterprise adoption. And yet whether you look
at the past 10 years, the past 5 years, or even the past 3 years crypto
as an asset class has generated the highest return of any asset class
globally.*

*William: So Megan, is it too late to invest?*

*Megan: No. The crypto market opportunities are indicators for why we
believe these are still the early days of crypto. In the last decade the
crypto market achieved a return of 90,000x. Today, more developers,
companies, and governments are building blockchain solutions than ever
before. Over the next half a decade alone we can easily see a 5x market
growth. So no you’re not late to the game because you didn’t buy bitcoin
at \$100*

*William: Are there specific opportunities you’re looking at?*

*Megan: Yes of course. Since the crypto market is in its nascent stages,
we take a long-term investment horizon approach. And in that approach,
we look at five main themes that are real world use cases for
blockchain. In the top 5 best use cases there are several sectors that
we look at such as payments, cross-border settlement, decentralized
finance, stablecoins, cloud wallets, tokenized real-world assets, data
collection and transfer, and gaming.*

*William: How do you invest in these use cases?*

*Megan: To invest in these use cases we look at the optimal way to
participate in any one of these global opportunities that I’ve laid out
which is influenced by the blockchain technology value creation stack.
We clearly do not use a simple heuristic approach. For instance, as an
investment approach we would not just invest in bitcoin and other top 10
protocol networks based on historical value. Most managers have used
this investment methodology. It worked a few years ago but it won’t be a
successful strategy going forward. This is because the focus is now on
practical business applications.*

*William: So Megan, thank you for coming here today and sharing your
insights about investing in crypto.*

*Megan: It’s my pleasure, thank you William, and thank you for
watching.*

    Disclaimer: The information contained herein is for informational purposes only. Nothing herein shall be construed to be financial legal or tax advice. The content of this video is solely the opinions of the speaker who is not a licensed financial advisor or registered investment advisor. Trading Forex, cryptocurrencies and CFDs poses considerable risk of loss. The speaker does not guarantee any particular outcome.

*---*

*Let us know what you think by joining the WAX community:*

[*Twitter*](https://go.wax.io/Twitter)

[*Telegram*](https://go.wax.io/Telegram)

[*Reddit*](https://go.wax.io/Reddit)

