
![](https://i.imgur.com/ib1UTY5.png)

Mar 17, 2020

**WAX ON: The future of NFTs (non-fungible tokens) in 2020 and beyond**
===================================================================



<div class="text-center" style="max-width:560px; margin: 0 auto;"><div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9"><iframe src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/6Nyz_yd_GJw" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></div></div>



*Video Transcript:*

I want to talk today about the future of NFTs, non-fungible tokens. Lots
of hype about NFTs, ever since Ethereum came out with its ERC-721
standard which really was a major innovation - being able to make every
token unique, in some particular way, opened the door for things like
dApp video gaming.

I said there has been a lot of hype about NFTs. And hype usually means
that what people are expecting to happen - in the near term - is a
little less grand than what is really going to happen. And this happens
ALL THE TIME in venture capital and the start-up culture. And there’s a
very specific reason for that. It’s because we can SEE the tremendous
potential of a new technology or (even better) a new business model. But
what we can CAN’T see are all these little problems that are going to
pop up once we start actually working with the new technology. This is
just how capitalism, start up life, entrepreneurship works.

And it’s exactly what I experienced in my early days at the idealab
incubator - idealab was the first consumer internet incubator in the
1990’s. And at idealab, we thought e-commerce was amazing. What an
improvement over mail order catalogs or trying to find that ONE BOOK at
your neighborhood book store. So we built a bunch of ecommerce sites:
Etoys, Cooking.com, Tickets.com, Music.com. This was the early days of
consumer internet. You could literally try to own a whole consumer
category. But what happened was once we built all these ecommerce
businesses we were like “Ok where is everybody?” Then we realized “Oh we
need internet marketing.” Whatever that is, because of course, no one
has ever done it. SO...how do you do that? So we figured out how to do
internet marketing. And companies like Double Click got invented and
made billions of dollars helping businesses do online advertising, and
then of course got acquired by Google.

So we figured out internet advertising, and we got people to show up to
our e-commerce sites using these new advertising inventions and then we
encountered another problem. “How come people aren’t buying much?” Well,
that’s when we found out about the payments problem. Payments was a huge
problem. Which is what led my partners and me to be the first
institutional investors in PayPal. We needed an innovation like PayPal
to make online shopping work, work for consumers, who demand
convenience. And by the way, at the time, credit card companies wanted
NOTHING to do with these questionable internet companies. In fact, even
if you could get a merchant credit card account for your e-commerce
company, you got charged 10%, 12%, 14% of the transaction in credit card
fees.

My point here is that as good as a new technology appears to be like
e-commerce, there is always some hidden friction in bringing that
technology to its full potential.

So about NFTs, these non-fungible tokens. As I look out here at the
beginning of 2020 at the hype around NFTs, there are things people
believe are right around the corner that I think are going to take
longer.

So let me run through a few of what I think those are:

The CONSENSUS view out there is that big video game companies are going
to start rushing in to incorporate NFTs into their hit video games. That
is not going to happen for a few years. You want to know why? Because
those big video game companies learned a lot of the lessons back when
they were small companies about adopting new technology and all the
friction that comes with it. So they’re cautious. They’re going to move
slow. As I’ve mentioned before, small, indie game developers will be the
first ones to experiment with, and even succeed with, NFTS.

Another consensus view right now about NFTs, is that people are just
going to start trading them like crazy. Nope, not going to happen. At
least not yet. Now, as a lot of you know, my partners and I spent the
past 20 years, running video game virtual item marketplaces. We know
this business. We also understand WHY people trade virtual items. At a
minimum, the trading PROCESS has to be simple. The single biggest
contribution to making that happen, is what we recently did with the WAX
Cloud Wallet. We’ve made it very simple to set up a blockchain account
and trade NFTs. There are now almost 500,000 customer accounts on the
WAX Blockchain in the past maybe three months because of the WAX Cloud
Wallet. But until large numbers of people move away from wallets like
Scatter and MetaMask, NFT trading will be limited. It’s just an emergent
behavior. You can’t just design some nice looking NFTs and expect people
are going to magically start trading them. People need a reason to do
things. And your job, if you’re a video game dApp designer, is to figure
out what will cause people to start trading. And that is still a work in
progress. Which is why I think massive trading right now is not going to
happen.

Let me mention one final consensus view about NFTs that’s wrong. That’s
leasing them. Yep. Leasing your NFTs. This has recently been getting a
lot of hype. But it’s not going to happen, in any material way, probably
ever. Why do I have such a strong opinion about this? Because its been
tried. Many times. For decades. Generally by people who don’t understand
video gamers. There is no evidence that video gamers want to lease skins
or NFTs. Just one possible problem that I see with the NFT leasing
market, is the fact that people own video game skins to show off. It’s a
way to say “Hey look at this expensive skin that I own, aren’t I
impressive?” But if anyone can inspect the blockchain and see that you
don’t own it, that you’re just a poser renting it, then you destroy the
whole reason you wanted the skin in the first place. This is just one
issue that I see, by the way. There’s many others.

Here is my advice on this one, this leasing NFT concept. If you can’t
come up with a super compelling reason why someone would want to rent or
lease a skin, then don’t waste time on it.

Let me finish here by saying that I have a few non-consensus views about
the future of NFTs. And in another upcoming video, I’m going to share
those with you. That’s it for now. If you liked what you heard on this
video, please hit subscribe, make a comment, and I’ll talk to you next
time.

*---*

*Let us know what you think by joining the WAX community:*

[*Twitter*](https://go.wax.io/Twitter)

[*Telegram*](https://go.wax.io/Telegram)

[*Reddit*](https://go.wax.io/Reddit)

