![](https://i.imgur.com/ojMitKP.png)


Mar 18, 2020


**WAX to Use Chainlink Oracles to Bring Off-Chain Data and Resources to the WAX and EOSIO Ecosystem﻿**
=======================================================================================================


![](https://i.imgur.com/mNH6oj1.png)

WAX is excited to announce its planned integration of Chainlink’s
decentralized oracle network to securely and reliably access data and
resources from outside the EOSIO ecosystem. WAX will use Chainlink to
obtain market data for DeFi products, source real-world events for
next-generation NFTs, and communicate cross-chain to other key
ecosystems such as Ethereum.

With this partnership, **the entire WAX ecosystem gets****secure
access****to a variety of off-chain resources, such as random number
generation, token prices, sports events, IoT data, interoperability with
other chains, existing payment systems, enterprise backends, and much
more.** This **helps dApps avoid the major pitfalls with trying to
deploy their own oracles**, such as excessive delays, extra expenses,
and even fatal security flaws.

By building support for WAX, Chainlink becomes accessible to EOSIO-based
chains for minimal cost, as all EOSIO chains utilize the same smart
contract language and are architected virtually identical to one
another. This will Chainlink the standard oracle solution used
exclusively by WAX and all other dApps in the EOSIO ecosystem.

**WAX Building Next-Generation dApps using Chainlink Oracles**
--------------------------------------------------------------

The possibilities for easily integrating off-chain data into dApps on
the WAX Blockchain are endless, especially for games. For example you
can create a fantasy dApp game that retrieves live professional sports
scores, game plays, lineups and more. Or pull crypto and stock market
prices to create real-time accurate decentralized exchanges, games, and
applications.

That’s because by integrating Chainlink into the WAX Blockchain, a
variety of real-world applications become possible thanks to a secure
and reliable connection to existing non-blockchain infrastructure and
other blockchain ecosystems.

Some initial use cases we’re exploring using both WAX and Chainlink,
include:

-   **Data-Driven NFTs on the WAX Blockchain**. Using our existing
    partnerships, [such as with Topps for digital trading
    cards](https://wax.io/blog/new-wax-and-topps-unveil-historic-blockchain-trading-card-partnership),
    we can create NFTs that are subjective to real-world data. For
    example, a special baseball card that’s only issued if someone
    breaks the home run record.

-   **Ethereum NFTs and FTs on the WAX Blockchain.**Chainlink provides a
    bridge for broadcasting events happening on either chain to the
    other one.

-   **Native DeFi products on the WAX Blockchain.** Building our own
    and/or using existing Chainlink’s [Price Reference
    Contracts](https://feeds.chain.link/) offer a secure, easy to deploy
    solution for quickly launching DeFi instruments that rely on
    accurate market data.
    
-   **A stablecoin for the -EOSIO ecosystem.** This is something already
    in high demand and very needed for financial stability. Given their
    extensive experience building secure oracles, which is evident in
    adoption by other stablecoin/currency projects, Chainlink is the
    main and only trusted oracle for these applications.

**Why Chainlink**
-----------------

Due to the way blockchains form consensus, they can only process
computation using data already stored inside the blockchain while still
retaining security. Similar to computer networks, blockchains can be far
more effective when connected to data and systems outside their
immediate network (off-chain).

Connecting off-chain is important, but only if the actual data and
delivery of that data is highly secure. What’s the point in having
secure underlying smart contracts running on a decentralized blockchain
if the connection off-chain is insecure?

An oracle is a digital agent employed by a smart contract to retrieve
and/or connect it to data and systems outside its native blockchain
(off-chain). Oracles enable this off-chain connectivity for the smart
contract by reformatting external connection points (APIs) so that two
different software applications are compatible for data exchange. The
oracles can then pull data into the smart contract and/or execute
actions on external systems based on predefined instructions and
endpoints.

Chainlink is unique in that it’s a decentralized oracle network that
currently provides decentralization at both the oracle and data source
level. By using multiple independent Chainlink nodes, the user can
protect against one oracle being a single point of failure. Similarly,
using multiple data sources for sourcing market prices, the user can
protect against one data source being a single source of truth.

It has a growing pool of 30 independent node operators run by leading
blockchain DevOps and security teams, many of which have extensive
experience running POS nodes across multiple blockchain networks.
Chainlink has a very expansive ecosystem of over 120+ projects,
representing multiple different blockchains and large enterprises, as
well as encompassing many different use cases, such as finance,
insurance, and regulated gaming. It currently has 29 Data Feeds for DeFi
(Price Reference Contracts) used by many top Ethereum dApps.

"Having a reliable and secure Layer 2 solution that augments the value
of our smart contract ecosystem is paramount to achieving real-world
adoption of WAX’s distributed blockchain applications (dApps),” says
Lukas Sliwka, Chief Technical Advisor, WAX. “WAX’s dApp developers gain
far more functionality when they can integrate with data and systems
outside the native blockchain, such as accessing token prices, sports
stats, etc. Chainlink will bridge that gap as the standard framework for
building provably secure and redundantly reliable oracle networks for
WAX and the EOSIO ecosystem, ultimately leading to next-generation dApps
that retrieve and respond to real-world data and events."

**About Chainlink**
-------------------

If you’re a developer and want to connect your smart contract to
existing data and infrastructure outside the underlying blockchain,
reach out to us [here](https://chainlink.typeform.com/to/gEwrPO)! We can
help you quickly and securely launch your data-enabled application
or [Chainlink Price Reference Data Contract](https://feeds.chain.link/)
on mainnet today. You can also visit the [developer
documentation](https://docs.chain.link/) or join the technical
discussion on [Discord](https://discordapp.com/invite/aSK4zew). Learn
more by visiting the [Chainlink website](https://chain.link/) or follow
us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/chainlink)
or [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/Chainlink/).

[Chainlink](https://chain.link/) is a decentralized oracle network that
enables smart contracts to securely access off-chain data feeds, web
APIs, and traditional bank payments. It is well known for providing
highly secure and reliable oracles to large enterprises 
([Google](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/data-analytics/building-hybrid-blockchain-cloud-applications-with-ethereum-and-google-cloud), [Oracle](https://www.forbes.com/sites/darrynpollock/2019/07/30/oracle-building-a-virtuous-cycle-of-innovation-with-start-ups-through-chainlink-and-blockchain/#34cfc294ffcc),
and [SWIFT](https://create.smartcontract.com/sibos17)) and leading smart
contract development teams such
as [Polkadot/Substrate](https://medium.com/web3foundation/web3-foundation-and-chainlink-announce-collaboration-df55ed462a3a), [Synthetix](https://blog.synthetix.io/synthetix-and-chainlink/), [Loopring](https://medium.com/loopring-protocol/chainlink-and-loopring-collaborate-on-oracles-for-zkrollup-dex-protocol-c1c8094afc27), [Aave](https://medium.com/aave/the-aave-oracle-network-powered-by-chainlink-is-now-live-45bb8a5a8c4e), [OpenLaw](https://medium.com/@OpenLawOfficial/openlaw-teams-with-chainlink-to-bring-real-world-info-to-smart-contracts-4e7a3dac80a8), [Etherisc](https://blog.etherisc.com/etherisc-to-leverage-chainlink-oracles-for-decentralized-flight-insurance-product-9559b64d79c7), [Conflux](https://medium.com/@Confluxchain/conflux-partners-with-chainlink-to-enable-secure-connections-between-the-blockchain-and-75b2ae8ef176),
and many others.

**About WAX (Worldwide Asset eXchange)**
----------------------------------------

WAX is an all-in-one blockchain platform enabling developers to easily
create, sell and trade digital goods to empower businesses to profit
from the next era of digital commerce. For more information, please
visit[wax.io](https://wax.io/) and follow along
on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/wax_io), [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCQPwMpYKMDiudnw41QwliHQ),
and [Telegram](https://t.me/wax_io).

Visit the [WAX Developer Hive](https://developer.wax.io/) for all our
developer resources, and join our communities to stay up to date on WAX
developments:

-   [WAX Developer Telegram Channel](https://t.me/waxdevelopers)
-   [WAX Telegram Discussion Channel](https://t.me/wax_io)
-   [WAX Telegram Announcements
    Channel](https://t.me/waxtokenannoucements)
-   [WAX Twitter](https://twitter.com/wax_io)

