![WAX and Topps Unveil Historic Blockchain Trading Card Partnership](https://i.imgur.com/MyFxGfY.png)

Mar 2, 2020


**WAX and Topps Unveil Historic Blockchain Trading Card Partnership**
======================================================================


WAX and The Topps Company, the most prestigious global producer of
trading cards for MLB, Star Wars, WWE and Garbage Pail Kids, today
unveiled a historic partnership to bring their vast licensing portfolio
to the WAX Blockchain.

Utilizing WAX’s blockchain technology, fans around the world can now
discover, collect and trade officially-licensed digital Topps
collectibles. Collectibles can be seamlessly sold, or traded instantly
and securely, with anyone across the world. With blockchain
collectibles, collectors can enjoy the fun of trading and sharing
digital cards with others around the world through a secure and
efficient medium. The digital cards are authenticated and tracked using
WAX Blockchain technology to ensure providence and security.

The first Topps blockchain trading cards will launch in Spring 2020 and
will be available for purchase online using a credit card and the WAX
Cloud Wallet, the most user-friendly blockchain wallet today. To get on
the waitlist (and enter to win cards!), visit
[topps.wax.io](http://topps.wax.io/).

“Over the years, collectors of Topps trading cards have enjoyed the
thrill of ripping open a pack of cards. This partnership allows us to
bring that memorable collectible experience to an even wider audience.
Our Garbage Pail Kids blockchain product will highlight recent
advancements in technology and continues Topps’ history of developing
innovative products,” said Tobin Lent, Vice President, General Manager
of Topps Digital.

Topps trading cards have regularly sold in secondary markets for
hundreds of thousands of dollars, so it’s critical that WAX Blockchain
technology guarantee Topps cards are authentic and that trades are
secured.

By interacting with Garbage Pail Kids cards on the WAX Blockchain,
anyone can see the details of the cards’ information and trading
history. This enables everyone involved to make informed purchases,
sales, and trades, with anyone else in the world - instantly.

![TOPPS ON THE WAX BLOCKCHAIN](https://i.imgur.com/TPUdEYQ.png)

The blockchain records every aspect of every card’s transaction and
stores it forever. These blockchain records can’t be changed by anyone,
and can be seen by everyone. Therefore, since the blockchain removes all
uncertainty, there’s no need to take a chance with a buyer or seller or
blindly trust another trader.

Data for Garbage Pail Kids cards on the blockchain includes:

-   **Detailed product specifications** for each card including the date
    it was created, its rarity, images of the card, proof of its
    authenticity, and more. With this information, collectors know
    exactly which cards they are trading - no guesswork, no need to
    trust or verify other traders.
-   **Comprehensive ownership records** that show who traded the card
    and when. Since everyone can see its full ownership history, no one
    can ever fake ownership of a card.
-   **Complete trade and sale history** including how much money was paid
    for the cards and when. No one can ever fake previous sale prices or
    dates.

“Topps is bringing their collectibles to the forefront of digital
innovation and is determined to leverage the opportunities that the
blockchain can provide. I believe the WAX Blockchain will have an
important and positive impact on Topps future business models and the
way they engage their fanbase. We are very pleased to welcome Topps in
the WAX family of dApps.” said Evan Vandenberg, Director at WAX.

**Resources**

-   To join the waitlist, visit [topps.wax.io](https://topps.wax.io/)
-   To stay abreast of WAX developments, partnerships and other
    announcements, [sign up for the WAX newsletter](https://wax.io/).
-   To develop your dApp for the WAX Blockchain,
    visit [developer.wax.io](https://developer.wax.io/)

**About WAX (Worldwide Asset eXchange)**

WAX is an all-in-one blockchain platform enabling developers to easily
create, sell and trade digital goods to empower businesses to profit
from the next era of digital commerce. For more information, please
visit[wax.io](https://wax.io/) and follow along
on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/wax_io), [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCQPwMpYKMDiudnw41QwliHQ),
and [Telegram](https://t.me/wax_io).

Worldwide Asset eXchange™, WAX is a trademark and the sole property of
Worldwide Asset eXchange.

**About The Topps Company, Inc.**

Founded in 1938, Topps is the leading creator and marketer of sports and
related cards, entertainment products, and distinctive confectionery.
Topps entertainment products include the NFL, MLB, UFC, MLS, WWE and
other trading cards, sticker album collections, and collectible games.
The Company’s confectionery brands include Bazooka® bubble gum, Ring
Pop®, Push Pop®, Baby Bottle Pop® and Juicy Drop ® Pop lollipops. For
additional information, visit Sports Cards and Entertainment Cards at
Topps.com and follow us on facebook at facebook.com/Topps, on twitter
@Toppscards, and now on Instagram @ToppsSports.

*---*

*Let us know what you think by joining the WAX community:*

[*Twitter*](https://go.wax.io/Twitter)

[*Telegram*](https://go.wax.io/Telegram)

[*Reddit*](https://go.wax.io/Reddit)

